https://www.quora.com/My-22-year-old-son-has-cut-my-husband-and-me-out-of-his-life-and-is-refusing-to-take-our-calls-He-says-This-is-revenge-for-being-overprotective-strict-and-never-listening-What-should-I-do

My 22 year old son has cut my husband and me out of his life, and is refusing to take our calls. He says, "This is revenge, for being overprotective, strict, and never listening." What should I do?

There is nothing you can do.

The last time I spoke with my parents was in August 2014. Ever since then, I came to the United States. They stayed in China.

In the past four years, we never spoke with each other via phone calls. We never talked through Skype or FaceTime. The only way of communication was text message, which occurred once or twice a week.

I never returned to China for winter break, summer break or whatever holidays. I was never out of the United States border except going to Israel and Brazil.

They never came to visit me in the United States. They offered to come to my graduation ceremony, but I told them I was not going to attend at all.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is my way of cutting them out of my life.

I have no plans to meet them again. I cannot imagine myself agreeing to meet them at anytime in the foreseeable future.

However, I choose not to make things nasty. I simply told them that I was living on a very tight schedule that I barely had time to breathe, let alone heading back home.

I told them that I worked two jobs during the break, one part-time job as a full-time student, and in the future 80 hours per week at a law firm.

They kept telling me not to overwork myself, but I ignored these texts.

Unlike your son, this is not my way of revenge.

Cutting them out of my life is probably the healthiest way I am coping with my depression and anxiety. At least, healthier than the highly addictive self-harm, alcohol and cigarettes.

According to my experience, if you are aware what causes the depressive mood comes, the best thing you can do is to stay away from the source.

To me, the source of my depression is my parents.

They are the reason that I hate who I am, that I consider myself worthless, that I am a retard, that I am ugly and that my smile looks stupid.

They are the reason that I've had sudden outbursts out of nowhere, that I've flown into a rage to an innocent person, that I've had anger issues, self-esteem issues and all sorts of psychological issues.

At one point, I had an epiphany. I should cut them out of my life.

Yes, they love me, at least they say so. But to me, the word “love” means nothing but bitterness and toxicity.

If I strongly desire revenge, I would have killed myself a long time ago.

For years, I've been contemplating suicide, because I want my parents to suffer, and make them live in misery for the rest of their life. Especially after I've witnessed what a child's death can do to the parents.

This would be my way of revenge.

Even now, I still have such urge every now and then.

Someone once told me that it was stupid to kill yourself only to revenge on someone you hate. I didn't fully understand why it would be “stupid” but this keeps me alive and makes me agree to give my life a try.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is my two-cent about your circumstances.
•It's likely that you and your husband have traumatized him to such an extent that you have become his source of depression.

If that's the case, you will have to evaluate your love to your son.

If you truly love your son, and want him to be happy, the best thing you can do is to stop contacting him. Never reach out to him unless he reaches out to you first.

When you're the source of depression, he associates you with the depressive mood. Anything about you could trigger him.

It takes a long time for anyone to move on from trauma and dissociate the source from depressive feelings. Sometime it's not even possible to dissociate, ever.
•Regardless, your “overprotection, strict, never listening” has deeply traumatized him.

Don't blame him for not being strong enough.

Don't emphasize that you do it out of love. We are tired of hearing this. We are fully aware of this.

In fact, this is why I'm unable to dissociate “love” from toxicity; this is why I stop believing in love altogether.

As children, we know that parents have done everything out of love, and that they would have done anything for us. Unfortunately, neither me nor your son felt the love.
•You should be glad that your son hasn't taken revenge in more extreme ways.

If your son, like me, is cruel in nature, he would have thought of killing himself to revenge on you.
•Your responsibility is to make him a productive member of the society and let him make the most of his life.

You do not own him. He's not your property. In fact, he's not even obliged to contact you once he's a financially independent adult; raising him and giving him a family is your obligation, do not expect any gratitude.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Maybe you can get some inspiration from the dialogue from Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. It is one of the most memorable dialogues in the entire play.

A middle-aged Harry was distressed about his son Albus, who was apparently unhappy yet he didn't want to open up to his dad. Harry knew that Albus was unhappy, but he was unable to connect with his son.

GINNY: After I came out of hospital - everyone ignored me, shut me out - other than, that is, the boy who had everything - who came across the Gryffindor common room and challenged me to a game of Exploding Snap. People think they know all there is to know about you, but the best bits of you are - have always been - heroic in really quiet ways. My point is - after this is over, just remember if you could that sometimes people - but particularly children - just want someone to play Exploding Snap with.

HARRY: You think that's what we're missing - Exploding Snap?

GINNY: No. But the love I felt from you that day - I'm not sure Albus feels that.

HARRY: I'd do anything for him.

GINNY: Harry, you'd do anything for anybody. You were pretty happy to sacrifice yourself for the world. He needs to feel specific love. It'll make him stronger, and you stronger too.

HARRY: I do love him specifically.

GINNY: I know, but he needs to feel it.
